This lecture will talk of, about the
basic process by which data analysis will
unfold.
And of course, not every data analysis is
the same,
and not every data analysis will require
the same components.
I think this will serve as a useful
template for kind of understanding, what
are the pieces of a, of a data analysis
and how they typically flow together.
So, if one were to write down the steps in
a
data analysis, you might come up with
something along these lines.
A list just like this one.
There may be things that, little things
you might want to add or delete.
But see, most data analysis have some
subset of these steps.
And so what we're going to talk about in
this lecture, which is part one.
Is defining the question that you're
interested in.
Defining the ideal data set.
Determining what data you actually can
access.
Obtaining the data and cleaning the data.
And then in part two of this
lecture, we'll talk about the remaining
topics here.
I think the key challenge in, in pretty
much any data analysis was well
characterized by Dan Meyer who's a
mathematics
educator and he taught high school
mathematics.
In his Ted talk he said ask yourselves
what problem have you solved
ever, that was worth solving where you
knew all the given information in advance.
Where you
didn't have a surplus of information and
have to filter it out.
Or you had insuf, insufficient information
and had to go find some.
And so I think that's a key element of
data analysis that which is that you know,
typically, you don't have all the facts or
you have too much information, and you
kind of
have to go through it, and the process, a
lot of the process of data analysis is
sorting through kind of all this, all this
stuff
And so, the first part, the, the kind of
important
part of data analysis that you want to
start with is, is define a question.
And not every data analysis starts with
the very specific or coherent question.
But the, the more effort you can put into
coming up with a reasonable
question, the, the less effort you'll
spend
having to filter through a lot of, stuff.
And the reason why is that defining a
question is the kind of the most powerful.
Dimension reduction tool you can
ever employ.
because if you're interested in, you know,
in,
in, a specific variable, like height or
weight, then
you can kind of remove, a lot of other
variables that don't really pertain to
that at all.
But if you're interested in a different
type
of variable then you can remove another
subset.
And so the idea is if, if you
can narrow down your question as
specifically as possible.
Then that will serve to reduce the kind of
noise that you'll, that you'll have
to deal with when you're going through a
potentially very large data set.
Now sometimes you just want to look at a
data
set and see kind of what's inside this
data set.
And then you'll have to explore all kinds
of things in a large data set.
But if you can narrow down your interest,
your, your interest to a
specific type of question, then that can
be extremely useful for simplifying your
problem.
So I encourage you to to kind of think
about what
type of question you're interested in
answering before, you go into delving
into all the details of your data set.
So, the science, generally speaking, will
determine
what type of question you're interested in
asking.
And that will lead you to the data.
Which may lead you to applied statistics,
which
is you know, you use to analyze the data.
And then if you get really you know,
ambitious you might want to think of some
theoretical
statistics that will kind of generalize
the the
methods that you apply to different types
of data.
Now of course there are relatively few
people
who can even, who can do that, and so I,
that would not be expected of everyone.
So the part that's in the, the red bracket
that's
number one That's typically referred to as
statistical methods development.
The part that's in the purple bracket here
number two, which is just kind
of, the application of statistics to, just
to raw data without any sense of science.
is, is what I would refer to as the danger
zone, and which we, which I kind of,
derive here from.
A kind of a Venn diagram of data science
that's written by Drew Conway.
The idea is if you just kind of randomly
apply
statistical methods to data sets to find
an interesting answer.
First of all, you will find something
interesting almost certainly, but
it may not be reproducible and it may not
be really meaningful.
And so I think the a truly, a proper data
analysis
has a scientific context, it hopefully has
at least some general
question that we're trying to.
To try and to investigate which will
narrow
down the kind of dimensionality of the
problem.
And then we'll apply the appropriate
statistical methods to the appropriate
data.
So, let's start with the very basic
example of a question.
So a general question might be you know,
can I automatically detect emails that are
spam?
And those that are not.
Of course, this is an important question
if, if you use email.
If you want to know what are the emails
that you, that you should
read, that are important, and what are the
emails that are just spam?
And so you might want to, and so if you
want to turn that into
a data analysis problem there are many
ways that you could answer this question.
For example, you could
just hire someone to just go through your
email and figure out what's spam or not.
But that's not really that's probably not
very sustainable.
It's not particularly efficient.
So, if you want to turn this into a
data analysis question, you have to make
the question
a little bit more concrete and, and
translate it
by using terms that are specific to data
analysis tools.
And so a more concrete version of this
question might be
you know, can I use quantitative
characteristics of the emails themselves
to
classify them as spam or ham.
Okay so now we can start looking at emails
and try to think well what are these
quantitative characteristics that I want
to develop so
that I can kind of classify them as spam.
So, once you've got a question here we
want to
know okay, how do I separate out my email.
So that I know what's spam and what's not
spam that way presumably you can kind
of get rid of all the spam and just read
the usual, the, the, the real email.
So the first thing you might want to think
about
is what is the ideal data set for this
problem.
And so if I had, you know, all the
resources
in the world, what would I go out to look
for?
And so there are different types of data
sets that you could potentially collect.
And depending on the goal and the type of
question you, you're asking.
A descriptive data set.
So if you're looking, interested in a
descriptive
problem, you might think of a whole
population.
So again, just kind of.
So you don't need to sample anything.
You might want to just get the entire
census or population that you're looking
for.
So all the emails in the universe, for
example.
If you just want to explore your question.
You might just take a random sample with a
bunch of variables measured.
If you
want to make inference about a problem
then you
have to have you have yet to be very
careful about the sampling mechanism and,
and the
definition of the population that you're
sampling from because.
Typically when you make an inferential
statement, you take you're, you're, you're
drawing from a sample to make a conclusion
about a larger population.
So there the sampling mechanism, it was
very important.
If you want to make a prediction, then
you're going to need
something like a training set and a test
data set
from this, from a population that you're
interested in,
so that you can build a model and a
classifier.
If you want to make a causal statement, so
you want to
say okay, if I modify this component, then
something else happens.
So this is basically, you're going to need
experimental data, and one type of
experimental
data is from, from some, from something
like a randomized trial or a randomized
study.
And then if you want to make mechanistic
types
of statements, you need data about all the
different
components of the system that you're
trying to describe.
[SOUND]
So, for our problem here with spam one
ideal
day so perhaps would be you know, if you
use
Gmail you know that all the emails in the
Gmail
system are going to be stored on Google's
data centers, right?
So, why don't we just get.
All the data in, in Google data centers,
all the emails in Google data centers.
Right, because that would be a whole
population of
emails, and then we can just kind of build
our classifier based on all this data, and
then we have, we,
we wouldn't have to worry about sampling,
because we'd have all the data.
And then, and so that would be a, a kind
of an ideal data set.
So, of course, in the real world, you have
to think
about, well what are the data that you can
actually access, right?
So, maybe someone at Google can actually,
can
access all the emails that go through
Gmail.
But, but even in that extreme case, it may
be difficult.
And furthermore, most people are not
going to be able to access that.
So, sometimes you, you have to go for
something that's not quite the ideal data
set.
And so you might be able to find free data
on the web.
You might need to buy some data from a
provider And if you, and in these
kinds of cases, you should be sure to
respect the terms of use for the data.
So any agreement or contract that you
agree, that you've
kind of agreed to about the data has to be
adhered to.
And if the data simply do not exist out
there,
you may need to generate the data yourself
in some way.
So, getting all the data from Google will
probably not be possible, because most,
I'm guessing their
data centers have some very high security,
and
so we're going to have to go with
something else.
And so one possible solution is the is, is
comes from the
UCI machine on your repository, which is
the spam based data set.
And this is a collection
of spam that was, that was pur, and this
data set was created
by people at Hewlett Packard who collected
some, a couple thousand spam messages.
Spam and regular messages, and classified
them appropriately.
So you can use this database to explore
your
problem of how to classify emails into
spam or ham.
So, when you obtain the data, the first
goal
is to, you know, try to obtain the raw
data.
For example, from the UCI machine on your
repository.
You have to be careful to reference the
source, so wherever you get the data
from, you should always reference the
source
and keep track of where it came from.
If you're asking, if you want, if you need
to get data from a person or an
invest, investigator that you're not
familiar with often
a very polite email will go a long way.
They may be willing to share that data
with you.
And if you,
if you get data from an internet source,
you should
always make sure at the very minimum
record the URL
which is the website indicator of where
you got the
data and the time and date that you access
that.
So people have a reference, when that data
was available.
In the future, the website might go down
or the URL may change or may not be
available, but at least at that time you
got that data you documented how you got
it.
So the data set that we're going to talk
about
in this example since we don't have access
to Google's
data centers, is the spam in a data set
which
you can get from the Kern Lab package in
R.
So it comes with the Kern Lab package and
so if you
install the Kern Lab package you can load
the data set right away.
So the first thing that you typically need
to do
with any data set is to clean it a little
bit.
So often-raw data you typically
need to be processed in some way to get it
into a form where you can model it
or feed it into a modeling program If it's
already pre-processed, it's important that
you understand how it was.
Pre-processed so try to get some
documentation about
what the pre-processing was and how it was
done.
You have to understand kind of where the
data come from, so for example
if it came from a survey, you need to know
how the sampling was done.
it, was it a convenient sample, or was,
did the data come from an observational
study, did it come
from experiments of, the source of the
data is very important.
You may need to reformat the data in a
certain way
to get it to work in a certain type of
analysis.
If the data set is extremely large you may
want
to sub-sample the data set to make it more
manageable.
And so anything you do to clean the data,
it is very important that you
record these steps and write them down you
know, in scripts or whatever is most
convenient.
Because someone you or someone else is
going to have
to reproduce these steps if they want to
reproduce your findings.
And if you don't document all these
pre-processing steps, then
no one will ever be able to do it again.
So, once you've cleaned the data and
you've gotten
a basic look at it, it's important to
determine of
the data are good enough to solve your
problems
because in some cases they may not be good
enough.
You may not have enough data, you may not
have enough variables or enough
characteristics, the sampling of the data
may be inappropriate for your question.
So there may be all kinds of problems that
occur
and you, that you realize as you clean the
data.
And so, and if you determined the data
are not good enough for your question,
then you've
got to quit, and, or, and try again,
or change the data, or try a different
question.
it's, it's important to not to just push
on, and with the data
you have, just because that's all that
you've got, because that can lead
inappropriate inferences or conclusions.
So here is our cleaned data set that we're
going to use for this example.
It's already been cleaned for us, in the
Kern Lab
package, and I'm just showing you the
first five variables here.
There are many other variables in the data
set but
you can see that there's 4601 observations
of the five variables.
I put the link here, you can see the help
page in turn,
it shows you where the data set came from
and how it's processed.